---
layout: post
title: pylab on Ubuntu
date: 2012-06-16 10:55:36.000000000 +01:00
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- Computing
- python
tags:
- enthought
- EPD
- linux
- pylab
- python
- ubuntu
author: deparkes
permalink: "/2012/06/16/pylab-on-ubuntu-12-04-6/"
---

This post explains how I recovered using the standard <a href="https://exciting-code.org/install-pylab-matplotlib-and-ipython">pylab install</a> in ubuntu after I initially tried to use the Enthought Python Distribution, and broke some packages.
<h1>I try to install EPD</h1>
I tried to install the <a href="https://www.enthought.com/products/epd/">Enthought Python Distribution</a> on Ubuntu (12.04), having had some success with it on windows (and not realising that Ubuntu had the constituent parts anyway). It moaned about matplotlib needing <strong>wxpython =&gt; version 2.8</strong> and I couldn't figure out how to get that to work.
<h1>I break the original pylab packages</h1>
In the process of trying to get EPD to work I realised that it might be<strong> easier to just use the packages already available</strong> to Ubuntu (numpy, scipy, ipython etc). Unfortunately my installing EPD had somehow messed up the ipython config file so it could no longer run with needed "ipython -pylab" to put it into pylab mode. It can't load some module 'kernmagic', whatever that is.
<h1>I find a fix</h1>
I found <a title="how to sort out python after EPD" href="https://python.6.n6.nabble.com/Problem-with-0-12-beta-td1647243.html">this</a> exchange which explained the issue and more or less how to sort it out. As a novice it took me a little while to figure out that the<strong> ipython_config.py</strong> file was in a hidden folder .ipython in my <strong>home directory</strong> (~/.ipython/profile_default). I then just followed the advice in the link of commenting out the line c.TerminalIPythonApp.extensions = ['kernmagic'] in the config file. Sorted.
